## Status report for the Apache Cordova project - June 2025

## Description

A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.

## Project Status

**Current project status:**

Our current work continues on staying updated with changes to iOS and Android, our most utilized platforms, alongside ensuring regular updates to plugins and tooling.

Our status dashboard at http://status.cordova.io remains mostly all green and our nightly builds are still stable.

**Issues for the board:**

There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Membership Data

There are currently 100 committers and 97 PMC members in this project.

The Committer-to-PMC ratio is roughly 1:1.

**Community changes, past quarter:**

This quarter, we welcomed Manuel Beck to the Apache Cordova team.

- Last addition was Manuel Beck was added to the PMC on 2025-04-04
- Last addition was Manuel Beck was added as committer on 2025-04-04

## Project Activity

The following releases made to our project this quarter focused on core platforms and plugins to keep up with current requirements.

**Releases:**

- cordova-android@14.0.1 was released on 2025-04-30.
- cordova-android@14.0.0 was released on 2025-03-25.
- cordova-plugin-media-capture@6.0.0 was released on 2025-02-26.

## Community Health

Overall, the community health is strong. The ASF Project Statistics gives the project a Community Health Score (Chi): 10.00 (Super Healthy)

This quarter was a little less active compared to the previous one, but we continue to see valuable contributions from a group of dedicated individuals. The project remains stable and continues to see good traffic.

Our Android platform package had both a major and a patch release. These releases focused on providing support for building with the latest major version of Android.

The Media Capture plugin also received a major update aimed at removing unnecessary permissions on the Android platform, allowing end users to evaluate their specific needs and enable only the necessary media-related permissions.

A few contributors continue to make improvements and prepare for future major releases of Cordova-iOS. Majority of the large tasks have been completed. Currently, contributors are reviewing and completing smaller tasks, testing recent changes, and awaiting the next beta release of iOS to test against.

Github discussions is how our community supports each other and is live at https://github.com/apache/cordova/discussions. All discussions are forwarded to the 'issues' list.

## Mailing List Activity

- dev@cordova.apache.org had a 10% increase in traffic in the past quarter (22 emails compared to 20)
<!-- - issues@cordova.apache.org had a % decrease/increase in traffic in the past quarter ( emails compared to ) -->
