## Status report for the Apache Cordova project - Sept 2025

## Description

A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.

## Project Status

**Current project status:**

Our current work focuses on staying up to date by making improvements to internal tooling, core platforms, and the CLI.

Our status dashboard at http://status.cordova.io remains mostly all green and our nightly builds are still stable.

**Issues for the board:**

There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Membership Data

There are currently 100 committers and 97 PMC members in this project.

The Committer-to-PMC ratio is roughly 1:1.

**Community changes, past quarter:**

- Last addition was Manuel Beck was added to the PMC on 2025-04-04
- Last addition was Manuel Beck was added as committer on 2025-04-04

## Project Activity

The following releases made to our project this quarter focused on core platforms and plugins to keep up with current requirements.

**Releases:**

- cordova-app-hello-world@7.0.0 was released on 2025-08-29.
- cordova-fetch@5.0.0 was released on 2025-08-29.
- cordova-common@6.0.0 was released on 2025-08-08.
- cordova-eslint@6.0.0 was released on 2025-07-25.

## Community Health

Overall, the community health is strong. The ASF Project Statistics gives the project a Community Health Score (Chi): 10.00 (Super Healthy)

This quarter, we primarily focused on improving our internal packages used by the CLI and platforms. These packages form part of the CLI's tree structure, which we are preparing for the next major release. Additionally, some of these internal packages and libraries are also used by our core platforms, making them essential for upcoming platform releases as well.

We continue to see valuable contributions from a group of dedicated individuals. The project remains stable and continues to see good traffic.

Github discussions is how our community supports each other and is live at https://github.com/apache/cordova/discussions. All discussions are forwarded to the 'issues' list.

## Mailing List Activity

- dev@cordova.apache.org had a 100% increase in traffic in the past quarter (44 emails compared to 22)
- issues@cordova.apache.org had a 113% increase in traffic in the past quarter (1072 emails compared to 503)
