## Status report for the Apache Cordova project - December 2025

## Description

A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.

## Project Status

**Current project status:**

Our current work focuses on staying up to date by making improvements to internal tooling, core platforms, and the CLI.

Our status dashboard at https://apache.github.io/cordova-status/ remains mostly all green and our nightly builds are still stable.

**Issues for the board:**

There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Membership Data

There are currently 100 committers and 97 PMC members in this project.

The Committer-to-PMC ratio is roughly 1:1.

**Community changes, past quarter:**

- No new PMC members. Last addition was Manuel Beck on 2025-04-04.
- No new committers. Last addition was Manuel Beck on 2025-04-04.

## Project Activity

The following releases to our project this quarter focused on the Cordova-iOS platform, the CLI, and internal libraries.

**Releases:**

- cordova-cli@13.0.0 was released on 2025-11-25.
- cordova-ios@8.0.0 was released on 2025-11-23.
- cordova-lib@13.0.0 was released on 2025-11-05.
- cordova-create@6.0.0 was released on 2025-10-22.

## Community Health

Overall, the community health is strong. The ASF Project Statistics gives the project a Community Health Score (Chi): 6.33 (Healthy)

This quarter, we primarily focused on improving and releasing internal packages used by the CLI. These packages form part of the CLI's dependency tree. This work continued from the previous quarter, with the goal of delivering the next major CLI release within this timeframe, which we successfully achieved.

Additionally, we finalized and released the next major version of Cordova-iOS: 8.0.0.

We continue to see valuable contributions from a group of dedicated individuals who actively test, report issues, and submit PRs to address their findings for future releases.

Recent discussion threads have been opened, showing interest in improving the project's current release process by introducing some level of automation and adopting the new Apache Trusted Release process. There is also interest in finding ways to refactor and improve documentation and plugin testing.

Overall, the project remains stable and continues to see strong activity.

Github discussions is how our community supports each other and is live at https://github.com/apache/cordova/discussions. All discussions are forwarded to the 'issues' list.

## Mailing List Activity

- dev@cordova.apache.org had a 29% increase in traffic in the past quarter (57 emails compared to 44)
- issues@cordova.apache.org had a 20% decrease in traffic in the past quarter (857 emails compared to 1064)
