## Status report for the Apache Cordova project - June 2023

## Description: 
 - A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
 
## Activity

Current work continues to be keeping up with changes to iOS and Android, our most used platforms, and updating plugins.

Github discussions has become how our community supports each other.  

Committers made some large releases this quarter with major version updates to cordova-android, the cli and cordova-lib.

## Issues: 
  - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.
   
## Health report: 

Our status dashboard at http://status.cordova.io remain mostly all green - failures are usually due to external service issues that do device testing. Our nightly builds are still extremely stable.

ASF Project Statistics gives the project a Community Health Score (Chi): 4.7 Healthy

We continue to see contributions from a small group of dedicated individuals. Things remain stable and the project continues to see good traffic.

Our discussion area is live at https://github.com/apache/cordova/discussions and activity has been shifting there and away from our #slack community.


## Membership Data:
- There are currently 99 committers and 96 PMC members in this project.
- The Committer-to-PMC ratio is roughly 1:1.

### Community changes, past quarter:

- No new PMC members. Last addition was Pieter Van Poyer on 2021-04-05.
- No new committers. Last addition was Pieter Van Poyer on 2021-04-05.
   
## Releases: 

- cordova-android@12.0.0 was released on 2023-05-23.
- cordova-cli@12.0.0 was released on 2023-05-23.
- cordova-lib@12.0.1 was released on 2023-05-23.
- cordova-browser@7.0.0 was released on 2023-05-16.
- cordova-create@5.0.0 was released on 2023-05-16.
- cordova-lib@12.0.0 was released on 2023-05-16.
- cordova-ios@6.3.0 was released on 2023-04-17.
- cordova-fetch@4.0.0 was released on 2023-04-13.


## Github activity:

Issue close rate of 197%

112 issues opened on GitHub, past quarter (8% increase)
221 issues closed on GitHub, past quarter (-8% change)

PR close rate of 121%

145 PRs opened on GitHub, past quarter (10% increase)
175 PRs closed on GitHub, past quarter (25% increase)

Commits

196 commits in the past quarter (33% increase)
22 code contributors in the past quarter (46% increase)







