## Status report for the Apache Cordova project - September 2023

## Description: 
 - A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
 
## Activity

Current work continues to be keeping up with changes to iOS and Android, our most used platforms, and updating plugins.

Github discussions has become how our community supports each other.  

Committers made large releases this quarter with major version bumps to cordova-ios@7, cordova-plugin-file@8, cordova-plugin-media-capture@5, cordova-plugin-camera@7, cordova-plugin-file-transfer@2, cordova-plugin-media@7

## Issues: 
  - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.
   
## Health report: 

Our status dashboard at http://status.cordova.io remains mostly all green and our nightly builds are still extremely stable.

ASF Project Statistics gives the project a Community Health Score (Chi): 4.70 Healthy

A small group of dedicated individuals continue to contribute and make incremental releases.
The project remains stable and continues to see good traffic.

Our discussion area is live at https://github.com/apache/cordova/discussions and activity is forwarded to the 'issues' list.


## Membership Data:
- There are currently 99 committers and 96 PMC members in this project.
- The Committer-to-PMC ratio is roughly 1:1.

### Community changes, past quarter:

- No new PMC members. Last addition was Pieter Van Poyer on 2021-04-05.
- No new committers. Last addition was Pieter Van Poyer on 2021-04-05.
   
## Releases: 

- cordova-plugin-file-transfer@2.0.0 was released on 2023-09-13.
- cordova-plugin-media@7.0.0 was released on 2023-09-13.
- cordova-plugin-camera@7.0.0 was released on 2023-09-12.
- cordova-ios@7.0.1 was released on 2023-09-06.
- cordova-android@12.0.1 was released on 2023-08-28.
- cordova-plugin-media-capture@5.0.0 was released on 2023-08-18.
- cordova-ios@7.0.0 was released on 2023-07-10.
- cordova-plugin-file@8.0.0 was released on 2023-07-10.

## Github activity:

Issue close rate of 99%
101 issues opened on GitHub, past quarter (-15% change)
100 issues closed on GitHub, past quarter (-55% change)


PR close rate of 91%
141 PRs opened on GitHub, past quarter (-4% change)
128 PRs closed on GitHub, past quarter (-27% change)

Commits
146 commits in the past quarter (-30% decrease)
14 code contributors in the past quarter (-41% change)
