## Status report for the Apache Cordova project - March 2026

## Description

A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.

## Project Status

**Current project status:**

Our current work focuses on staying up to date by making improvements to our release process, plugins, and core platforms.

Our status dashboard at https://apache.github.io/cordova-status/ remains mostly all green.

**Issues for the board:**

There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Membership Data

There are currently 100 committers and 97 PMC members in this project.

The Committer-to-PMC ratio is roughly 1:1.

**Community changes, past quarter:**

- No new PMC members. Last addition was Manuel Beck on 2025-04-04.
- No new committers. Last addition was Manuel Beck on 2025-04-04.

## Project Activity

The following releases to our project this quarter focused on the Cordova-Android platform, CLI, and internal libraries.

**Releases:**

- cordova-android@15.0.0 was released on 2026-03-06.
- cordova-eslint@6.0.1 was released on 2026-02-18.
- cordova-cli@13.0.0 was released on 2025-11-25.

**Other:**

Some committers continue to bring Cordova's perspective and use cases of WebViews to the W3C community groups. The Open Source Initiative enabled open source maintainers  to contribute feedback on ETSI standards that are currently in development for the Cyber Resilience Act. We're happy to provide the editors with information on how embedded browsers are used. The CRA will likely introduce new standards and new security requirements and we would like to make sure use-case like Cordova are covered. Example: https://labs.etsi.org/rep/stan4cra/en-304-617/-/issues/5

## Community Health

Overall, the community health is strong. The ASF Project Statistics gives the project a Community Health Score (Chi): 6.33 (Healthy)

This quarter, we primarily focused on improving our plugins and release process.

Addtionally, we finalized and successfully released the next major version of Cordova-Android 15 and Cordova-CLI 13.

As part of our release process improvements, we have been rewriting our release guidelines and have started implementing release workflows throughout our project to make use of the upcoming Apache Trusted Releases (ATR) tool. As we rework our release process and guidelines, this allows us to review and improve areas where we may be lacking and make the necessary corrections to realign them. Additionally, we would like to note that the last two packages were successfully released using the new ATR tool.

We have been making various improvements to our project's website, including archiving documentation for older versions so that only the current live documentation is hosted, adding a download page, make use of deploying to staging for reviewing, and resolving several outstanding minor visual bugs.

We also continue to see valuable contributions from a group of dedicated individuals who actively test, report issues, and submit PRs to address their findings for future releases. A large portion of this quarter's activity has been focused on our plugins, particularly In-App-Browser and Camera.

Overall, the project remains stable and continues to see strong activity.

Github discussions is how our community supports each other and is live at https://github.com/apache/cordova/discussions. All discussions are forwarded to the 'issues' list.

## Mailing List Activity

- dev@cordova.apache.org had a 8% increase in traffic in the past quarter (62 emails compared to 57)
- issues@cordova.apache.org had a 56% increase in traffic in the past quarter (1172 emails compared to 751)
