## Status report for the Apache Cordova project - June 2024

## Description

A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.

## Project Status

**Current project status:**

Our current work continues on staying updated with changes to iOS and Android, our most utilized platforms, alongside ensuring regular updates to plugins.

Our status dashboard at http://status.cordova.io remains mostly all green and our nightly builds are still extremely stable.

Committers made a major release to update the cordova-android platform to update dependencies. cordova-ios minor and cordova-plugin-file releases were published to comply with Apple's new privacy requirements.

**Issues for the board:**

There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Membership Data

There are currently 99 committers and 96 PMC members in this project.

The Committer-to-PMC ratio is roughly 1:1.

**Community changes, past quarter:**

- No new PMC members. Last addition was Pieter Van Poyer on 2021-04-06.
- No new committers. Last addition was Pieter Van Poyer on 2021-04-06.

## Project Activity

Our project made releases this quarter for our core platforms to keep up with current requirements.

**Releases:**

- cordova-plugin-file@8.1.0 was released on 2024-06-05.
- cordova-android@13.0.0 was released on 2024-05-23.
- cordova-ios@7.1.0 was released on 2024-04-03.
- cordova-eslint@5.1.0 was released on 2024-03-27.

## Community Health

ASF Project Statistics gives the project a Community Health Score (Chi): 4.70 (Healthy)

We continue to see contributions from a small group of dedicated individuals. Things remain stable and the project continues to see good traffic.

Github discussions have become how our community supports each other. Our discussion area is live at https://github.com/apache/cordova/discussions and activity is forwarded to the 'issues' list.

## Mailing List Activity

- dev@cordova.apache.org had a 211% increase in traffic in the past quarter (56 emails compared to 18)
- issues@cordova.apache.org had a 67% increase in traffic in the past quarter (895 emails compared to 533)

## Github Activity

**Issues:**

Issue close rate of 94%

- 54 issues opened on GitHub, past quarter (8% increase)
- 51 issues closed on GitHub, past quarter (6% increase)

**PRs:**

PR close rate of 112%

- 97 PRs opened on GitHub, past quarter (185% increase)
- 109 PRs closed on GitHub, past quarter (172% increase)

**Commits:**

- 103 commits in the past quarter (145% increase)
- 9 code contributors in the past quarter (12% increase)
