## Status report for the Apache Cordova project - Sept 2024

## Description

A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.

## Project Status

**Current project status:**

Our current work continues on staying updated with changes to iOS and Android, our most utilized platforms, alongside ensuring regular updates to plugins.

Our status dashboard at http://status.cordova.io remains mostly all green and our nightly builds are still extremely stable.

Committers have made a patch release to update the cordova-ios platform to apply fixes around plugin management and scoping of code signing. A major release of cordova-plugin-file was published to remove support for a deprecated platform and to comply with Apple's new privacy requirements.

**Issues for the board:**

There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Membership Data

There are currently 99 committers and 96 PMC members in this project.

The Committer-to-PMC ratio is roughly 1:1.

**Community changes, past quarter:**

- No new PMC members. Last addition was Pieter Van Poyer on 2021-04-06.
- No new committers. Last addition was Pieter Van Poyer on 2021-04-06.

## Project Activity

Our project made releases this quarter for our core platforms to keep up with current requirements.

**Releases:**

- cordova-ios@7.1.1 was released on 2024-07-24.
- cordova-plugin-device@3.0.0 was released on 2024-06-17.

## Community Health

ASF Project Statistics gives the project a Community Health Score (Chi): 4.70 (Healthy)

We continue to see contributions from a small group of dedicated individuals. Things remain stable and the project continues to see good traffic.

Github discussions have become how our community supports each other. Our discussion area is live at https://github.com/apache/cordova/discussions and activity is forwarded to the 'issues' list.

## Mailing List Activity

- dev@cordova.apache.org had a 80% decrease in traffic in the past quarter (15 emails compared to 72)
- issues@cordova.apache.org had a 6% decrease in traffic in the past quarter (857 emails compared to 909)

## Github Activity

**Issues:**

Issue close rate of 141%

- 63 issues opened on GitHub, past quarter (23% increase)
- 89 issues closed on GitHub, past quarter (93% increase)

**PRs:**

PR close rate of 126%

- 79 PRs opened on GitHub, past quarter (-24% change)
- 100 PRs closed on GitHub, past quarter (-7% change)

**Commits:**

- 89 commits in the past quarter (-19% decrease)
- 12 code contributors in the past quarter (20% increase)
