## Description: 
 - A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.

## Issues: 
  - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.
  
## Activity: 

We had three platform patch releases of Android (fixes to gradle repositories and plugin compatibility) and one platform patch release for Windows (fixes bugs related to the last major version release). There was no iOS platform release nor   any plugin releases. 

There were two tool releases of the CLI (minor and patch release) to resolve `npm audit` issues. This will be the last tool release before we move on to Node 6 for the next major version.

   
## Health report: 

Our status dashboard at http://status.cordova.io is mostly all green - failures are usually due to external service issues that do device testing. Our nightly builds have been extremely stable.

We are actively trying to resolve all existing issues in JIRA while also maintaining all the new issues and pull requests in Github. 

## PMC changes: 
   
 - Currently 94 PMC members. 
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months 
 - Last PMC addition was Bryan Ellis on Wed Jul 25 2018 
   
## Committer base changes: 
   
 - Currently 97 committers. 
 - No new committers added in the last 3 months 
 - Last committer addition was Bryan Ellis at Thu Jul 26 2018 
   
## Releases: 
   
 - cordova-android@7.1.2 was released on Wed Nov 07 2018 
 - cordova-android@7.1.3 was released on Wed Nov 21 2018 
 - cordova-android@7.1.4 was released on Fri Nov 23 2018 
 - cordova-common@3.0.0 was released on Mon Nov 05 2018 
 - cordova-fetch@1.3.1 was released on Thu Sep 20 2018 
 - cordova-lib@8.1.0 was released on Thu Sep 20 2018 
 - cordova-lib@8.1.1 was released on Fri Oct 05 2018 
 - cordova-windows@6.0.1 was released on Fri Oct 05 2018 
 - cordova@8.1.0 was released on Wed Sep 26 2018 
 - cordova@8.1.2 was released on Sun Oct 07 2018 
   
   
## JIRA activity: 
   
 - 0 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months (JIRA has been shut down)
 - 276 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months
 
 ## Github activity: 
 
 Issue close rate of 37%:
 - 575 Github Issues created in the last 3 months 
 - 212 Github Issues closed in the last 3 months 
 
 PR close rate of 80%:
 - 318 Github Pull Requests created in the last 3 months 
 - 253 Github Pull Requests closed/merged in the last 3 months 
