## Description: 
 - A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
   
## Issues: 
  - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time. 
  
## Activity: 
We had no platform releases this quarter. Regarding tools releases - we had one for cordova-common and cordova-serve, mainly to fix small bugs and update dependencies. We had also one plugins release, where we released new versions for 10 plugins - which contained bug fixes.

With the deprecation of Node.js 4 support by the Node Foundation (see our [blog post](https://cordova.apache.org/news/2016/10/01/0.x-4.x-deprecation-timeline.html)) we are proceeding with removing Node 4 support in all our tools and platforms, which will bump up all versions by a major version. This will bring ES6 and ES7 support into Cordova.
   
## Health report: 
Our status dashboard at http://status.cordova.io is mostly all green.

We still have a backlog of GitHub Pull Request activity, again, same as last quarter. We have started migrating from JIRA to Github Issues (starting with cordova-docs) to perhaps take advantage of some automation available through Github apps.

## PMC changes: 
   
 - Currently 91 PMC members. 
 - New PMC members: 
    - Gandhi Rajan was added to the PMC on Sat Apr 28 2018 
    - Raphael von der Grün was added to the PMC on Tue May 29 2018 
   
## Committer base changes: 
   
 - Currently 94 committers. 
 - New commmitters: 
    - Gandhi Rajan was added as a committer on Thu Apr 26 2018 
    - Raphael von der Grün was added as a committer on Tue May 29 2018 
   
## Releases: 
   
 - cordova-common@2.2.3 was released on Mon Jun 04 2018 
 - cordova-plugin-battery-status@2.0.2 was released on Tue Apr 17 2018 
 - cordova-plugin-camera@4.0.3 was released on Tue Apr 17 2018 
 - cordova-plugin-device-motion@2.0.1 was released on Tue Apr 17 2018 
 - cordova-plugin-device-orientation@2.0.1 was released on Tue Apr 17 2018 
 - cordova-plugin-device@2.0.2 was released on Tue Apr 17 2018 
 - cordova-plugin-globalization@1.11.0 was released on Tue Apr 17 2018 
 - cordova-plugin-statusbar@2.4.2 was released on Tue Apr 17 2018 
 - cordova-plugin-vibration@3.1.0 was released on Tue Apr 17 2018 
 - cordova-plugin-inappbrowser@3.0.0 was released on Tue Apr 17 2018 
 - cordova-plugin-media-capture@3.0.2 was released on Tue Apr 17 2018 
 - cordova-serve@2.0.1 was released on Fri Jun 08 2018 
   
## JIRA activity: 
   
 - 156 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months 
 - 188 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months 
