## Description: 
 - A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.

## Issues: 
  - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity: 
We had four platform releases this quarter. The releases were mainly bug fixes and also fixes related to `npm audit` issues. `npm audit` checks the dependency tree for your code and provides a security vulnerability report.

We had tool releases for cordova-common, cordova-js, and cordova-coho. The releases relate to bug fixes and fixes related to `npm audit` issues. We also upgraded support to `node-6` and greater, with our dropping of `node-4` support.

We had our first committers meeting (over video call) of 2018 with all the new committers to discuss project direction. Our last meeting face to face was in Oct 2016 in Redmond, WA.

We shut down creation of new issues in Apache JIRA, and enabled `Github Issues` in all 71 repositories that we have in Apache's Github org. We decided not to migrate any existing open issues in JIRA to Github -- we will investigate and triage those issues in JIRA and migrate issues on a case by case basis. We established an org-level Github Project Board for us to have a bird's eye view of all Cordova issues in all our numerous repos, for planning purposes.

## Health report: 
Our status dashboard at http://status.cordova.io is mostly all green - failures are usually due to external service issues that do device testing. Our nightly builds have been stable with occassional packaging failures.

We are actively trying to resolve all existing issues in JIRA while also maintaining all the new issues in Github.

## PMC changes: 
   
 - Currently 94 PMC members. 
 - New PMC members: 
    - Bryan Ellis was added to the PMC on Wed Jul 25 2018 
    - Ken (knaito) was added to the PMC on Wed Jul 25 2018 
    - Gearóid M was added to the PMC on Wed Jul 25 2018 
   
## Committer base changes: 
   
 - Currently 97 committers. 
 - New commmitters: 
    - Bryan Ellis was added as a committer on Thu Jul 26 2018 
    - Ken (knaito) was added as a committer on Thu Jul 26 2018 
    - Gearóid M was added as a committer on Mon Jul 23 2018 
   
## Releases: 
   
 - cordova-android@7.1.1 was released on Mon Jul 16 2018 
 - cordova-browser@5.0.4 was released on Fri Aug 10 2018 
 - cordova-coho@1.0.1 was released on Wed Jun 20 2018 
 - cordova-common@2.2.4 was released on Tue Jun 19 2018 
 - cordova-common@2.2.5 was released on Mon Jul 02 2018 
 - cordova-ios@4.5.5 was released on Thu Jul 26 2018 
 - cordova-js@4.2.3 was released on Thu Jun 21 2018 
 - cordova-js@4.2.4 was released on Tue Jun 26 2018 
 - cordova-osx@4.0.2 was released on Tue Aug 14 2018 
   
## Mailing list activity: 
   
 - TODO Please explain what the following statistics mean 
   for the project. If there is nothing significant in the figures, omit this 
   section. 
   
 - dev@cordova.apache.org:  
    - 383 subscribers (down -11 in the last 3 months): 
    - 544 emails sent to list (255 in previous quarter) 
   
 - issues@cordova.apache.org:  
    - 65 subscribers (down -2 in the last 3 months): 
    - 2328 emails sent to list (1641 in previous quarter) 
   
   
## JIRA activity: 
   
 - 140 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months 
 - 288 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months 
   
