## Description: 
A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
   
## Issues: 
There are no issues requiring Board attention at this time.
   
## Activity: 
There were two overall plugin releases this quarter. An overall plugin release usually consists of all, if not most, of our  22 plugins. This number was the same as last quarter.
 
We had three platform releases - two patch releases for Android (6.1.1 and 6.1.2) and one major release for Windows (5.0.0). Android patch releases were to fix a CI issue, and a security issue, respectively. The major Windows release introduces a major change in resource-file behavior and adds WinMD + C++ based DLL combination support for plugins. There was no iOS platform release this quarter, with ongoing work to release version 4.4.0 in the coming weeks.
 
We had a minor tools release of the CLI version 6.5.0 which updated Android platform pinning, as well as including minor fixes.
   
## Health report: 

Our status dashboard at http://status.cordova.io is mostly all green. The badges that are red are general flakiness and unreliability of the CI environments that we use, which we are trying to track down. We are running into roadblocks with using Apache's account on Travis CI, where pull requests usually don't start until more than 24 hours later: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/INFRA-13634 which slows down development.

We still have a huge backlog of Github Pull Request activity, same as last quarter -- but it has improved. We would have liked to have direct access to Github to manage these issues better, instead of the workaround we have now. Our JIRA issue resolve rate has vastly improved as well.

Our goal for plugins release is to have one per week as a cadence, and we have failed to do so again this quarter. We have done work on streamlining this so it will improve in the future.

## PMC changes: 
   
 - Currently 85 PMC members. 
 - Audrey So was added to the PMC on Sun Jan 22 2017 
   
## Committer base changes: 
   
 - Currently 88 committers. 
 - Audrey So was added as a committer on Mon Jan 23 2017 
   
## Releases: 
   
 - cordova-android@6.1.1 was released on Wed Jan 04 2017 
 - cordova-android@6.1.2 was released on Thu Jan 26 2017 
 - cordova-common@2.0.0 was released on Mon Jan 23 2017 
 - cordova-common@2.0.1 was released on Sun Mar 12 2017 
 - cordova-create@1.0.2 was released on Mon Jan 23 2017 
 - cordova-fetch@1.0.2 was released on Mon Jan 23 2017 
 - cordova-js@4.2.1 was released on Mon Jan 23 2017 
 - cordova-lib@6.5.0 was released on Mon Jan 23 2017 
 - cordova-plugin-battery-status@1.2.2 was released on Thu Dec 15 2016 
 - cordova-plugin-battery-status@1.2.3 was released on Mon Mar 06 2017 
 - cordova-plugin-camera@2.4.0 was released on Mon Mar 06 2017 
 - cordova-plugin-console@1.0.6 was released on Tue Mar 07 2017 
 - cordova-plugin-contacts@2.3.0 was released on Tue Mar 07 2017 
 - cordova-plugin-device-motion@1.2.4 was released on Tue Mar 07 2017 
 - cordova-plugin-device-orientation@1.0.6 was released on Tue Mar 07 2017 
 - cordova-plugin-device@1.1.5 was released on Tue Mar 07 2017 
 - cordova-plugin-dialogs@1.3.2 was released on Tue Mar 07 2017 
 - cordova-plugin-file-transfer@1.6.2 was released on Tue Mar 07 2017 
 - cordova-plugin-file@4.3.2 was released on Tue Mar 07 2017 
 - cordova-plugin-geolocation@2.4.2 was released on Tue Mar 07 2017 
 - cordova-plugin-globalization@1.0.6 was released on Tue Mar 07 2017 
 - cordova-plugin-inappbrowser@1.6.1 was released on Thu Dec 15 2016 
 - cordova-plugin-inappbrowser@1.7.0 was released on Tue Mar 07 2017 
 - cordova-plugin-media-capture@1.4.2 was released on Tue Mar 07 2017 
 - cordova-plugin-media@3.0.0 was released on Tue Mar 07 2017 
 - cordova-plugin-network-information@1.3.2 was released on Tue Mar 07 2017 
 - cordova-plugin-splashscreen@4.0.2 was released on Tue Mar 07 2017 
 - cordova-plugin-statusbar@2.2.2 was released on Tue Mar 07 2017 
 - cordova-plugin-test-framework@1.1.5 was released on Tue Mar 07 2017 
 - cordova-plugin-vibration@2.1.4 was released on Tue Mar 07 2017 
 - cordova-plugin-whitelist@1.3.2 was released on Tue Mar 07 2017 
 - cordova-plugin-wkwebview-engine@1.1.2 was released on Tue Mar 07 2017 
 - cordova-windows@5.0.0 was released on Thu Feb 09 2017 
 - cordova@6.5.0 was released on Mon Jan 23 2017 
 - plugman@1.4.1 was released on Mon Jan 23 2017 
      
## JIRA activity: 
   
 - 320 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months 
 - 321 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months 
   
