## Description: 

 A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
   
## Issues: 
 
 There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.
   
## Activity: 

We had two platform releases - one minor release for iOS (4.5.0) and one major release for Browser (5.0.0). The iOS release integrated the console plugin and has updated some dependencies. The Browser release has implemented our standard platform API and now includes basic support for progressive web apps. 

We had a major release for our cordova serve tool (2.0.0) which now serves the web content and launches the default browser on the system. We have also had a minor release of our cordova-common library which adds the ability to include variables in the framework tag. 

## Health report: 

Our status dashboard at http://status.cordova.io is mostly all green.

We have finished moving our plugin testing to AppVeyor and Travis CI. This is the reason for all of the green badges on our status page!

We still have a huge backlog of GitHub Pull Request activity, again, same as last quarter -- but it has improved. We now have direct access to GitHub for platform repos. We are waiting for Infra to move over the rest of our repos to GitBox. https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/INFRA-14994. Once all of our repos are moved over, we plan on discussing the option of migrating our issues from Jira to GitHub and what that would look like.

We are in the process of deprecating a few of our plugins which can be replaced by official W3C specs which have been implemented in the browsers of the platforms we support. We are also in the process of integrating a couple of plugins back into platforms and deprecating the plugins. This will help ease the maintenance load on the team. 

Again, our goal for plugins release is to have one per week as a cadence, and we have failed to do so again this quarter. We have done work on streamlining this so it will improve in the future.
  
## PMC changes: 
   
 - Currently 86 PMC members. 
 - No new PMC members added
   
## Committer base changes: 
   
 - Currently 89 committers. 
 - No new committers added
   
## Releases: 

 - cordova-browser@5.0.0 was released on Tue Aug 29 2017
 - cordova-common@2.1.0 was released on Thu Aug 31 2017
 - cordova-ios@4.5.0 was released on Thu Sep 07 2017
 - cordova-serve@2.0.0 was released on Tue Aug 29 2017
   
## JIRA activity: 
   
 - 357 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months 
 - 278 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months 
   
