

## Status report for the Apache Cordova project - September 2019

## Description: 
 
A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.

## Issues: 

There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.
  
## Activity: 

cordova-electron@1.1.1 was the only platform release in this quarter.
cordova-android@8.1.0 is being voted on currently, and will be released shortly.
We will also be making some large changes to iOS as Apple has made it clear that they may soon reject app submissions for apps using depracated APIs.  Discussions are happening currently so we can find the best solution that does not break existing applications/plugins and meets Apple's requirements.

   
## Health report: 

Our status dashboard at http://status.cordova.io is mostly all green - failures are usually due to external service issues that do device testing. Our nightly builds remain extremely stable.

We are still working to resolve all existing issues in JIRA while also maintaining all the new issues and pull requests in Github.

## PMC changes: 
   
 - Currently 96 PMC members. 
 - New PMC members: 
    - no new pmc members this quarter
 - Last PMC addition: Tue Apr 30 2019 (Dave Alden) 
   
## Committer base changes: 
   
 - Currently 99 committers. 
 - New commmitters: 
    - no new committers added this quarter
 - Last committer addition: Tue Apr 30 2019 (Dave Alden)

   
## Releases: 

### Platforms

- cordova-electron@1.1.1 was released on 2019-08-27.

### Plugins

- cordova-plugin-wkwebview-engine@1.2.1 was released on 2019-07-22.
- cordova-plugin-wkwebview-engine@1.2.0 was released on 2019-07-11.
- cordova-plugin-camera@4.1.0 was released on 2019-07-11.
- cordova-plugin-file@6.0.2 was released on 2019-07-11.
- cordova-plugin-geolocation@4.0.2 was released on 2019-07-11.
- cordova-plugin-inappbrowser@3.1.0 was released on 2019-07-11.
- cordova-plugin-media@5.0.3 was released on 2019-07-11.

## Mailing list activity: 

 - dev@cordova.apache.org:  
    -  189 emails sent to list (234 in previous quarter) 
   
 - issues@cordova.apache.org:  
    - 82 emails sent to list (139 in previous quarter) 
 
## JIRA activity: 

 - 0 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months (JIRA has been shut down)
 - 53 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months
 
 ## Github activity: 
 
 Issue close rate of 63%:
 - 268 Github Issues created in the last 3 months 
 - 170 Github Issues closed in the last 3 months 
 
 PR close rate of 180%:
 - 78 Github Pull Requests created in the last 3 months 
 - 141 Github Pull Requests closed/merged in the last 3 months 
