

## Status report for the Apache Cordova project - March 2019

## Description: 
 - A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.

## Issues: 
  - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.
  
## Activity: 

  - We made 6 platform releases (Android@8, Browser@6, Electron@1, iOS@5, OSX@5, Windows@7), and 1 patch release (Electron@1.0.1). Electron is a new platform, and the 2 releases were the first.
  - We also made 8 tools/libraries releases.

   
## Health report: 

Our status dashboard at http://status.cordova.io is mostly all green - failures are usually due to external service issues that do device testing. Our nightly builds have been extremely stable.

We are still actively working to resolve all existing issues in JIRA while also maintaining all the new issues and pull requests in Github.

## PMC changes: 
   
 - Currently 94 PMC members. 
 - No new PMC members added in the last 3 months 
 - Last PMC addition was Bryan Ellis on Wed Jul 25 2018 
   
## Committer base changes: 
   
 - Currently 97 committers. 
 - No new committers added in the last 3 months 
 - Last committer addition was Bryan Ellis at Thu Jul 26 2018 
   
## Releases: 

### Platforms
- cordova-android@8.0.0 was released on Fri Feb 15 2019
- cordova-browser@6.0.0 was released on Sun Feb 03 2019
- cordova-electron@1.0.0 was released on Wed Feb 27 2019
- cordova-electron@1.0.1 was released on Tue Mar 05 2019
- cordova-ios@5.0.0 was released on Fri Feb 08 2019
- cordova-osx@5.0.0 was released on Sun Feb 03 2019
- cordova-windows@7.0.0 was released on Thu Mar 07 2019  

### Libraries
- cordova-app-hello-world@4.0.0 was released on Mon Dec 24 2018
- cordova-common@3.1.0 was released on Wed Jan 02 2019
- cordova-create@2.0.0 was released on Wed Jan 09 2019
- cordova-fetch@2.0.0 was released on Mon Dec 24 2018
- cordova-js@5.0.0 was released on Mon Dec 24 2018
- cordova-node-xcode@1.1.0 was released on Thu Dec 20 2018
- cordova-node-xcode@2.0.0 was released on Wed Jan 16 2019
- cordova-serve@3.0.0 was released on Mon Dec 24 2018
 
## JIRA activity: 

 - 0 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months (JIRA has been shut down)
 - 10 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months
 
 ## Github activity: 
 
 Issue close rate of 43%:
 - 423 Github Issues created in the last 3 months 
 - 182 Github Issues closed in the last 3 months 
 
 PR close rate of 96%:
 - 216 Github Pull Requests created in the last 3 months 
 - 207 Github Pull Requests closed/merged in the last 3 months 
