

## Status report for the Apache Cordova project - June 2019

## Description: 
 - A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.

## Issues: 
  - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.
  
## Activity: 

  - We made 2 platform patch releases (electron@1.0.2, ios@5.0.1)
  - We also made 6 tools/libraries releases.

   
## Health report: 

Our status dashboard at http://status.cordova.io is mostly all green - failures are usually due to external service issues that do device testing. Our nightly builds have been extremely stable.

We are still working to resolve all existing issues in JIRA while also maintaining all the new issues and pull requests in Github.

## PMC changes: 
   
 - Currently 96 PMC members. 
 - New PMC members: 
    - Dave Alden was added to the PMC on Tue Apr 30 2019 
    - Tim Brust was added to the PMC on Tue Apr 23 2019
 - Last PMC addition: Tue Apr 30 2019 (Dave Alden) 
   
## Committer base changes: 
   
 - Currently 99 committers. 
 - New commmitters: 
    - Dave Alden was added as a committer on Tue Apr 30 2019 
    - Tim Brust was added as a committer on Tue Apr 23 2019 
 - Last committer addition: Tue Apr 30 2019 (Dave Alden)

   
## Releases: 

### Platforms

- cordova-electron@1.0.2 was released on Mon Mar 18 2019
- cordova-ios@5.0.1 was released on Mon Apr 22 2019

### Libraries

- cordova-cli@9.0.0 was released on Fri Mar 22 2019
- cordova-fetch@2.0.1 was released on Fri Mar 22 2019
- cordova-lib@9.0.0 was released on Mon Mar 18 2019
- cordova-lib@9.0.1 was released on Tue Apr 02 2019
- cordova-plugman@3.0.0 was released on Fri Mar 22 2019
- cordova-plugman@3.0.1 was released on Mon Apr 15 2019

## Mailing list activity: 

 - dev@cordova.apache.org:  
    - 378 subscribers (down -8 in the last 3 months): 
    - 245 emails sent to list (307 in previous quarter) 
   
 - issues@cordova.apache.org:  
    - 66 subscribers (up 1 in the last 3 months): 
    - 139 emails sent to list (93 in previous quarter) 
 
## JIRA activity: 

 - 0 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months (JIRA has been shut down)
 - 114 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months
 
 ## Github activity: 
 
 Issue close rate of 48%:
 - 306 Github Issues created in the last 3 months 
 - 146 Github Issues closed in the last 3 months 
 
 PR close rate of 76%:
 - 340 Github Pull Requests created in the last 3 months 
 - 258 Github Pull Requests closed/merged in the last 3 months 
