

## Status report for the Apache Cordova project - December 2019

## Description: 
 
A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.

## Issues: 

There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.
  
## Activity: 

cordova-eslint is a new repo which consolidates linting standards which will be applied across all our repos.

The project received a generous anonymous donation, which took us a while to decide on an acceptable use of the funds.  We will be using the donation to pay to have some documentation, information architecture and technical writing done to update our documentation and author some getting started guides.

cordova-ios release includes prep work for removing the UIWebView implementation ( deprecated by Apple )
We will move forward this quarter with the migration from UIWebView to WKWebView for iOS.

   
## Health report: 

Our status dashboard at http://status.cordova.io is mostly all green - failures are usually due to external service issues that do device testing. Our nightly builds remain stable.

We are still working to resolve all existing issues in JIRA while also maintaining all the new issues and pull requests in Github.

## PMC changes: 
   
 - Currently 98 PMC members. 
 - New PMC members: 
    - Norman Breau was added to the PMC on 2019-09-29
    - Gedas Gardauskas was added to the PMC on 2019-10-18
 - Last PMC addition: 2019-10-18 (Gedas Gardauskas) 
   
## Committer base changes: 
   
 - Currently 101 committers. 
 - New commmitters: 
    - Norman Breau was added as committer on 2019-09-30
    - Gedas Gardauskas was added as committer on 2019-10-18
 - Last committer addition: 2019-10-18 (Gedas Gardauskas)
   
## Releases: 

### Platforms

- cordova-android@8.1.0 was released on 2019-09-17.
- cordova-ios@5.1.1 was released on 2019-12-02.
- cordova-ios@5.1.0 was released on 2019-11-25.

### Libraries

- cordova-eslint@2.0.0 was released on 2019-11-14.
- cordova-eslint@1.0.0 was released on 2019-11-09.
- cordova-common@3.2.1 was released on 2019-11-05.


## Mailing list activity: 

 - dev@cordova.apache.org:  
    -  234 emails sent to list (176 in previous quarter) 
   
 - issues@cordova.apache.org:  
    - 98 emails sent to list (82 in previous quarter) 
 
## JIRA activity: 

 - 0 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months (JIRA has been shut down)
 - 92 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months
 
 ## Github activity: 
 
 Issue close rate of 71%:
 - 334 Github Issues created in the last 3 months 
 - 236 Github Issues closed in the last 3 months 
 
 PR close rate of 87%:
 - 288 Github Pull Requests created in the last 3 months 
 - 250 Github Pull Requests closed/merged in the last 3 months 
