
## Description: 
A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.

## Issues: 
There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity: 
 The iOS and Android platforms had minor and patch releases while the Windows platform only had patch (bug fix) releases. 
 Android released minor version 5.2.0 which removed auto-setting of the versionCode in projects that was causing problems with generating APKs for different versions of Android. iOS released minor version 4.2.0 which added support for node.js version 6.x.

We didn't have a plugins release this quarter.
   
## Health report: 

The (northern hemisphere) summer vacation period has significantly impacted contributions, also a big block of active contributors (that are all employed from one vendor) have slowed down their active work on the project.

We also added a status page to show all the continous integration (AppVeyor, Travis CI) statuses of all our repos in Github, providing a quick glance at project health. The status page is at http://cordova.github.io/cordova-status/ which shows the status of all our 60+ repos.

We also have a CI server that does periodic builds of all the repos at http://cordova-ci.cloudapp.net:8080/view/Periodic%20builds/

We are also providing nightly builds of all the major platforms, and the CLI: https://builds.apache.org/job/cordova-nightly/
and documented here: http://cordova.apache.org/contribute/nightly_builds.html

We are currently working on getting stats on Github Pull Request activity. The loss of active contributors is impacting this, and we have a huge backlog, and we have no active way of measuring this on a daily or weekly basis so we don't know how we are progressing on this currently. Some work has been done on this: https://github.com/cordova/cordova-pull-request-stats

## PMC changes: 
   
 - Currently 83 PMC members. 
 - New PMC members: 
    - Alexandre Abreu was added to the PMC on Fri Jun 17 2016 
    - Caryn Tran was added to the PMC on Wed Aug 03 2016 
    - Holly Schinsky was added to the PMC on Sun Jun 26 2016 
    - Karen Tran was added to the PMC on Wed Aug 24 2016 
   
## Committer base changes: 
   
 - Currently 86 committers. 
 - New commmitters: 
    - Alexandre Abreu was added as a committer on Fri Jun 17 2016 
    - Caryn Tran was added as a committer on Wed Aug 03 2016 
    - Holly Schinsky was added as a committer on Tue Jun 28 2016 
    - Karen Tran was added as a committer on Tue Aug 23 2016 
   
## Releases: 
   
 - cordova-android@5.2.0 was released on Fri Jul 01 2016 
 - cordova-android@5.2.1 was released on Tue Jul 12 2016 
 - cordova-android@5.2.2 was released on Mon Aug 22 2016 
 - cordova-common@1.4.0 was released on Wed Jul 20 2016 
 - cordova-common@1.4.1 was released on Tue Aug 16 2016 
 - cordova-create@1.0.0 was released on Fri Aug 26 2016 
 - cordova-fetch@1.0.1 was released on Wed Jul 20 2016 
 - cordova-ios@4.2.0 was released on Thu Jun 23 2016 
 - cordova-ios@4.2.1 was released on Mon Aug 22 2016 
 - cordova-lib@6.3.0 was released on Wed Jul 20 2016 
 - cordova-lib@6.3.1 was released on Sun Aug 14 2016 
 - cordova-windows@4.4.1 was released on Tue Jul 12 2016 
 - cordova-windows@4.4.2 was released on Wed Jul 27 2016 
 - cordova@6.3.0 was released on Wed Jul 20 2016 
 - cordova@6.3.1 was released on Sun Aug 14 2016 
   
## Mailing list activity: 
   
 Significant activity decrease due to the (northern hemisphere) summer vacation period, plus loss of active contributors.

 - dev@cordova.apache.org:  
    - 463 subscribers (down -15 in the last 3 months): 
    - 2215 emails sent to list (3784 in previous quarter) 
   
 - issues@cordova.apache.org:  
    - 76 subscribers (down -5 in the last 3 months): 
    - 4308 emails sent to list (6023 in previous quarter) 
   
   
## JIRA activity: 
   
 - 384 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months 
 - 369 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months 
   
