Report from the Apache Cordova committee [Shazron Abdullah]

## Description: 

A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript. 

## Issues: 

There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.

## Activity: 

Current releases have been voted on according to the Apache vote policy. 

We had one major platform release, cordova-osx, which has been revived after a 2.5 year absence and comes with Cordova Platform API support. 

The other releases have been minor patch releases for 5 other platforms. Of note, cordova-ubuntu had several patch releases after a year of absence, mainly updates to support newer releases of the ubuntu SDK. cordova-windows had several patch releases, the major one being support for the Cordova Platform API. cordova-android had a patch release where it has support for a new Plugin API. 

cordova-ios had several patch releases - the latest was to fix a serious app freezing situation, and also to support the new 167x167 icon needed for iPad support. cordova-browser had a patch release to replace the cordova-serve implementation with an updated version that uses `express` instead of our own implementation.

There were also 18 plugin releases, and a major cordova-cli release to 6.0.0, which includes default plugin pinning, as well as a new template feature. We also released a significant documentation update that addresses major pain points in developing for Cordova based on feedback we got from a survey we put out (where we got 900 responses).

## Health report: 

The month of December was slower because of the holiday period but activity picked up around the middle of January. Consequently, we had a slight decrease in the number of releases from last quarter (34 vs 37). For this period, we managed two overall plugins releases (up from one, from last quarter) when our goal was to have one plugins release per week, although we had individual plugin releases as well.

## PMC changes: 
   
 - Currently 77 PMC members. 
 - New PMC members: 
    - David Barth was added to the PMC on Mon Jan 04 2016 
    - Raghav Katyal was added to the PMC on Wed Feb 03 2016 
   
## Committer base changes: 
   
 - Currently 80 committers. 
 - Raghav Katyal was added as a committer on Wed Feb 03 2016 
   
## Releases: 
   
 - cordova-android@5.1.0 was released on Sun Jan 24 2016 
 - cordova-android@5.1.1 was released on Wed Mar 02 2016 
 - cordova-browser@4.1.0 was released on Tue Mar 08 2016 
 - cordova-cli@6.0.0 was released on Thu Jan 28 2016 
 - cordova-common@1.1.0 was released on Wed Feb 17 2016 
 - cordova-ios@4.0.1 was released on Tue Dec 15 2015 
 - cordova-ios@4.1.0 was released on Wed Mar 02 2016 
 - cordova-js@4.1.3 was released on Thu Jan 28 2016 
 - cordova-lib@6.0.0 was released on Thu Jan 28 2016 
 - cordova-osx@4.0.0 was released on Tue Feb 16 2016 
 - cordova-osx@4.0.1 was released on Tue Mar 08 2016 
 - cordova-plugin-camera@2.1.0 was released on Sat Jan 16 2016 
 - cordova-plugin-contacts@2.0.1 was released on Sat Jan 16 2016 
 - cordova-plugin-device@1.1.1 was released on Sat Jan 16 2016 
 - cordova-plugin-file-transfer@1.5.0 was released on Sat Jan 16 2016 
 - cordova-plugin-file@4.1.0 was released on Sat Jan 16 2016 
 - cordova-plugin-geolocation@2.1.0 was released on Sat Jan 16 2016 
 - cordova-plugin-inappbrowser@1.1.1 was released on Mon Dec 14 2015 
 - cordova-plugin-inappbrowser@1.2.0 was released on Sat Jan 16 2016 
 - cordova-plugin-inappbrowser@1.2.1 was released on Thu Feb 04 2016 
 - cordova-plugin-media-capture@1.2.0 was released on Sat Jan 16 2016 
 - cordova-plugin-media@2.1.0 was released on Sat Jan 16 2016 
 - cordova-plugin-network-information@1.2.0 was released on Sat Jan 16 2016 
 - cordova-plugin-splashscreen@3.1.0 was released on Sat Jan 16 2016 
 - cordova-plugin-statusbar@2.1.0 was released on Sat Jan 16 2016 
 - cordova-plugin-test-framework@1.1.1 was released on Sat Jan 16 2016 
 - cordova-plugin-vibration@2.1.0 was released on Sat Jan 16 2016 
 - cordova-plugin-whitelist@1.2.1 was released on Sat Jan 16 2016 
 - cordova-plugin-wkwebview-engine@1.0.1 was released on Mon Dec 14 2015 
 - cordova-plugman@1.1.0 was released on Thu Jan 28 2016 
 - cordova-ubuntu@4.3.2 was released on Tue Jan 05 2016 
 - cordova-ubuntu@4.3.3 was released on Mon Feb 08 2016 
 - cordova-windows@4.3.0 was released on Mon Jan 18 2016 
 - cordova-windows@4.3.1 was released on Wed Feb 03 2016 
   
## Mailing list activity: 

The number of subscribers to dev@ has been consistently decreasing (~3% loss every quarter) but nothing significant. However during this quarter we had a 50% increase of issue@ activity which could be attributed to increased testing during the holiday period when development at users' companies might have slowed down, so users could test better.

 - dev@cordova.apache.org:  
    - 492 subscribers (down -15 in the last 3 months): 
    - 4028 emails sent to list (3558 in previous quarter) 
   
 - issues@cordova.apache.org:  
    - 89 subscribers (down -1 in the last 3 months): 
    - 8299 emails sent to list (5557 in previous quarter) 
   
   
## JIRA activity: 
   
 - 653 JIRA tickets created in the last 3 months 
 - 640 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last 3 months 
   
