

## Status report for the Apache Cordova project - September 2020

## Description: 
 - A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
 
## Activity
Recent work has been around keeping up with recent changes to iOS and Android, our most used platforms.  We are also working towards reducing some of our technical debt, we have discussed narrowing our platform support by removing some of the now outdated platforms we support so we can better serve our community. 
We still have not made a decision how best to use last year's generous donation.

## Issues: 
  - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.
   
## Health report: 

Our status dashboard at http://status.cordova.io is mostly all green - failures are usually due to external service issues that do device testing. Our nightly builds have been extremely stable.

ASF Project Statistics gives the project a Community Health Score (Chi): 6.33 (Healthy)
That said, we are only seeing contributions from a small group of dedicated individuals, and a lot of work has been focused on reducing some of the technical debt to keep the project managable with the limited time we have.  All the large corporate sponsered development has ceased, but the project continues to see good traffic, and usage has been stable.

The cordova-cli, the base tool used for creating/building/running gets 125k downloads a week on npm, and has been consistent for the last year.  Various core plugins see usage in the 50-80k/wk range.

Our primary channel for helping, and hearing from users is via our #slack community, which has ~4k users and is fairly active.

The pmc has renewed interest in having online video hangouts, which we are aiming to have every 2-3 weeks or more if possible.  Our time-zones are very distrubuted, so we will likely distribute the timing as well.  All meetings will be recorded and shared on YouTube, and we hope to get more and more intrest from the community.  

## PMC changes: 
   
 - Currently 99 PMC members. 
 - No new PMC members. 
 - Niklas Merz was added to the PMC on 2019-12-26
   
## Committer base changes: 
   
 - Currently 102 committers.
 - No new committers. 
 - Niklas Merz was added to committers on 2019-12-26
   
## Releases: 

- cordova-ios@6.1.1 was released on 2020-08-31.
- cordova-cli@10.0.0 was released on 2020-08-04.
- cordova-lib@10.0.0 was released on 2020-07-27.
- cordova-plugin-splashscreen@6.0.0 was released on 2020-07-20.
- cordova-common@4.0.2 was released on 2020-07-03.
- cordova-android@9.0.0 was released on 2020-06-29.
- cordova-ios@6.1.0 was released on 2020-06-24.
- cordova-osx@6.0.0 was released on 2020-06-24.
- cordova-plugin-inappbrowser@4.0.0 was released on 2020-06-13.

 
## JIRA activity: 

 - 0 JIRA tickets created in the last quarter (JIRA has been shut down)
 - 161 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last quarter

 ## Dev mailing list:

 dev@cordova.apache.org had a 17% increase in traffic in the past quarter (301 emails compared to 256):

 
 ## Github activity: 
 
 Issue close rate of 92%:
 - 308 issues opened on GitHub, past quarter
 - 282 issues closed on GitHub, past quarter
 
 PR close rate of 105%:
 - 274 PRs opened on GitHub, past quarter 
 - 289 PRs closed on GitHub, past quarter

Commits
- 491 commits in the past quarter (22% increase)
- 36 code contributors in the past quarter (no change)
