

## Status report for the Apache Cordova project - March 2020

## Description: 
 - A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
 
## Activity
 - We are still working out the details for how to use last years donation to hire someone to update our documentation and author some getting started guides. We have started an issue thread: https://github.com/apache/cordova-docs/issues/1057
  and welcome input/guidance from Apache.
 
## Issues: 
  - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.
   
## Health report: 

Our status dashboard at http://status.cordova.io is mostly all green - failures are usually due to external service issues that do device testing. Our nightly builds have been extremely stable.

We are still working to resolve all existing issues in JIRA while also maintaining all the new issues and pull requests in Github.

## PMC changes: 
   
 - Currently 99 PMC members. 
 - Niklas Merz was added to the PMC on 2019-12-26
   
## Committer base changes: 
   
 - Currently 102 committers
 - Niklas Merz was added to committers on 2019-12-26
   
## Releases: 

 - cordova-plugin-inappbrowser@3.2.0 was released on 2020-01-08.
 - cordova-windows@7.0.1 was released on 2020-01-06.
 - cordova-node-xcode@2.1.0 was released on 2019-12-24.
 
## JIRA activity: 

 - 0 JIRA tickets created in the last quarter (JIRA has been shut down)
 - 11 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last quarter
 
 ## Github activity: 
 
 Issue close rate of 57%:
 - 233 issues opened on GitHub, past quarter
 - 134 issues closed on GitHub, past quarter
 
 PR close rate of 95%:
 - 136 PRs opened on GitHub, past quarter
 - 130 PRs closed on GitHub, past quarter
