

## Status report for the Apache Cordova project - June 2020

## Description: 
 - A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
 
## Activity
 - We have not made a decision how best to use last year's generous donation since our plan to contract a specialist for UX and technical writing to update our documentation and create getting started guides was denied.  We will likely use the funds to purchase test devices for committers who need them, pending Apache approval, and acceptance by the donor.
 
## Issues: 
  - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.
   
## Health report: 

Our status dashboard at http://status.cordova.io is mostly all green - failures are usually due to external service issues that do device testing. Our nightly builds have been extremely stable.

We are still (slowly) working to resolve existing issues in JIRA, while also maintaining all the new issues and pull requests in Github.

## PMC changes: 
   
 - Currently 99 PMC members. 
 - No new PMC members. 
 - Niklas Merz was added to the PMC on 2019-12-26
   
## Committer base changes: 
   
 - Currently 102 committers.
 - No new committers. 
 - Niklas Merz was added to committers on 2019-12-26
   
## Releases: 

- cordova-plugin-splashscreen@5.0.4 was released on 2020-06-06.
- cordova-create@3.0.0 was released on 2020-06-01.
- cordova-ios@6.0.0 was released on 2020-06-01.
- cordova-common@4.0.1 was released on 2020-05-19.
- cordova-node-xcode@3.0.1 was released on 2020-05-19.
- cordova-app-hello-world@5.0.0 was released on 2020-04-13.
- cordova-fetch@3.0.0 was released on 2020-04-13.
- cordova-js@6.0.0 was released on 2020-04-13.
- cordova-node-xcode@3.0.0 was released on 2020-04-13.
- cordova-serve@4.0.0 was released on 2020-04-13.
- cordova-common@4.0.0 was released on 2020-03-30.
- cordova-eslint@3.0.0 was released on 2020-03-26.
 
## JIRA activity: 

 - 0 JIRA tickets created in the last quarter (JIRA has been shut down)
 - 3 JIRA tickets closed/resolved in the last quarter
 
 ## Github activity: 
 
 Issue close rate of 57%:
 - 300 issues opened on GitHub, past quarter
 - 311 issues closed on GitHub, past quarter
 
 PR close rate of 95%:
 - 264 PRs opened on GitHub, past quarter
 - 265 PRs closed on GitHub, past quarter
