

## Status report for the Apache Cordova project - December 2020

## Description: 
 - A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
 
## Activity
Recent work has been around keeping up with recent changes to iOS and Android, our most used platforms.  We continue to work towards reducing technical debt, and 'running the business'

## Issues: 
  - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.
   
## Health report: 

Our status dashboard at http://status.cordova.io is mostly all green - failures are usually due to external service issues that do device testing. Our nightly builds have been extremely stable.

ASF Project Statistics gives the project a Community Health Score (Chi): 6.33 (Healthy)

We are still only seeing contributions from a small group of dedicated individuals. This makes it harder to make large changes. All the large corporate sponsored development has ceased, but the project continues to see good traffic, and usage has been stable.

The cordova-cli, the base tool used for creating/building/running gets 125k downloads a week on npm, and has been consistent for the last year.  Various core plugins see usage in the 50-80k/wk range.

Our primary channel for helping, and hearing from users is via our #slack community, which has ~4k users and continues to be fairly active.  There has been some interest in also exploring github discussions.

Our online video hangouts are happening more regularly, which helps give a sense of team despite our varied distribution, and availability. All meetings are recorded and shared on YouTube, and we hope to get more and more interest from the community, as well as community participation.

## PMC changes: 
   
 - Currently 99 PMC members. 
 - No new PMC members. 
 - Niklas Merz was added to the PMC on 2019-12-26
   
## Committer base changes: 
   
 - Currently 102 committers.
 - No new committers. 
 - Niklas Merz was added to committers on 2019-12-26
   
## Releases: 

- cordova-plugin-inappbrowser@4.1.0 was released on 2020-11-21.
- cordova-plugin-geolocation@4.1.0 was released on 2020-11-20.
- cordova-plugin-camera@5.0.1 was released on 2020-11-09.
- cordova-electron@2.0.0 was released on 2020-10-02.
- cordova-plugin-camera@5.0.0 was released on 2020-09-18.
 
## Dev mailing list:

dev@cordova.apache.org had a 61% decrease in traffic in the past quarter (109 emails compared to 275):
 
## Github activity: 
 
 Issue close rate of 78%:
- 262 issues opened on GitHub, past quarter (-20% decrease)
- 205 issues closed on GitHub, past quarter (-29% decrease)
 
 PR close rate of 83%:
- 184 PRs opened on GitHub, past quarter (-34% decrease)
- 153 PRs closed on GitHub, past quarter (-49% decrease)

Commits
- 171 commits in the past quarter (-66% decrease)
- 27 code contributors in the past quarter (-22% decrease)
