## Status report for the Apache Cordova project - June 2022

## Description: 
 - A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
 
## Activity
Current work has been around keeping up with recent changes to iOS and Android, our most used platforms, and updating plugins. We continue to work towards reducing technical debt, and 'running the business'. 
Website analytics has converted from Google Analytics to Matomo, and are visible at https://analytics.apache.org/

## Issues: 
  - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.
   
## Health report: 

Our status dashboard at http://status.cordova.io remain mostly all green - failures are usually due to external service issues that do device testing. Our nightly builds are still extremely stable.

ASF Project Statistics gives the project a Community Health Score (Chi): 4.7 Healthy

We continue to see contributions from a small group of dedicated individuals. That said, things remain stable and the project continues to see good traffic.

Our primary channel for helping, and hearing from users is via our #slack community, which has ~4k users and continues to be fairly active. 

## Membership Data:
There are currently 102 committers and 99 PMC members in this project.
The Committer-to-PMC ratio is roughly 1:1.

### Community changes, past quarter:

- No new PMC members. Last addition was Pieter Van Poyer on 2021-04-05
- No new committers. Last addition was Pieter Van Poyer on 2021-04-05
   
## Releases: 

- cordova-electron@3.1.0 was released on 2022-05-30.
- cordova-plugin-media-capture@4.0.0 was released on 2022-05-30.
- cordova-plugin-media@6.0.0 was released on 2022-05-30.
- cordova-android@10.1.2 was released on 2022-04-15.
- cordova-plugin-device@2.1.0 was released on 2022-04-11.
- cordova-plugin-file@7.0.0 was released on 2022-04-11.
- cordova-plugin-splashscreen@6.0.1 was released on 2022-04-06.
- cordova-osx@7.0.0 was released on 2022-03-12.

## Dev mailing list:

dev@cordova.apache.org had a 43% decrease in traffic in the past quarter (52 emails compared to 90):
 
## Github activity: 

issues@cordova.apache.org had a 33% increase in traffic in the past quarter (1721 emails compared to 2550):

Issue close rate of 164%
- 91 issues opened on GitHub, past quarter (-13% change)
- 149 issues closed on GitHub, past quarter (161% increase)

PR close rate of 97%
- 155 PRs opened on GitHub, past quarter (252% increase)
- 151 PRs closed on GitHub, past quarter (259% increase)

Commits
- 170 commits in the past quarter (169% increase)
- 24 code contributors in the past quarter (100% increase)

