## Status report for the Apache Cordova project - Sept 2022

## Description: 
 - A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
 
## Activity
Current work continues to be keeping up with recent changes to iOS and Android, our most used platforms, and updating plugins. 

## Issues: 
  - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.
   
## Health report: 

Our status dashboard at http://status.cordova.io remain mostly all green - failures are usually due to external service issues that do device testing. Our nightly builds are still extremely stable.

ASF Project Statistics gives the project a Community Health Score (Chi): 4.7 Healthy

We continue to see contributions from a small group of dedicated individuals. Things remain stable and the project continues to see good traffic.

Our primary channel for helping, and hearing from users is via our #slack community, which has ~4k users and continues to be fairly active. 

## Membership Data:
There are currently 102 committers and 99 PMC members in this project.
The Committer-to-PMC ratio is roughly 1:1.

### Community changes, past quarter:

- No new PMC members. Last addition was Pieter Van Poyer on 2021-04-05
- No new committers. Last addition was Pieter Van Poyer on 2021-04-05
   
## Releases: 

- cordova-plugin-media@6.1.0 was released on 2022-09-09.
- cordova-plugin-splashscreen@6.0.2 was released on 2022-07-16.
- cordova-android@11.0.0 was released on 2022-07-12.

## Dev mailing list:

- _mailing list stats seem to be inaccurate, but traffic was lower this quarter_
 
## Github activity: 

- _mailing list stats seem to be inaccurate, but traffic was lower this quarter_

Issue close rate of 93%
- 107 issues opened on GitHub, past quarter (9% increase)
- 100 issues closed on GitHub, past quarter (-32% change)

PR close rate of 93%
- 193 PRs opened on GitHub, past quarter (17% increase)
- 180 PRs closed on GitHub, past quarter (13% increase)

Commits
- 182 commits in the past quarter (3% increase)
- 12 code contributors in the past quarter (-47% change)


