## Status report for the Apache Cordova project - December 2022

## Description: 
 - A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
 
## Activity
Current work continues to be keeping up with recent changes to iOS and Android, our most used platforms, and updating plugins. 

- We have updated our community plugin search page to make it more manageable as it was depending on a 3rd party api which was shut down.
- We now have github discussions enabled. *(Thanks INFRA!)*

## Issues: 
  - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.
   
## Health report: 

Our status dashboard at http://status.cordova.io remain mostly all green - failures are usually due to external service issues that do device testing. Our nightly builds are still extremely stable.

ASF Project Statistics gives the project a Community Health Score (Chi): 4.7 Healthy

We continue to see contributions from a small group of dedicated individuals. Things remain stable and the project continues to see good traffic.

Our primary channel for helping, and hearing from users is via our #slack community, which has ~4k users and continues to be fairly active.  We have begun transitioning conversations to github discussions.

## Questions from last report

> cd: You say, the primary channel for helping is the cordova slack.
> As there is no #cordova in the ASF slack, I assume it's an
> external one. Is there any form of archive of old questions and
> searchability? Or is this used entirely for support and not for
> discussions about the project itself?

We have our own slack community that is used exclusively to support developers and allow developers to help eachother. This is a hold-over from the days when Adobe/PhoneGap were active in the project, Adobe used to pay for #slack bill. We have since moved to the free-tier which is quite limiting.
The PMC has a private channel but it is really only used for near realtime discussion and any decisions are taken to the mailing list before being finalized.

Searchability is not great within #slack as is, and in the free tier we can only search back as far as 10k messages across all channels.  In order to keep historical conversations we have a daily digest service (github action) to copy all public conversations to a github repo in markdown.

The digest can be found here: https://github.com/apache/cordova/tree/master/slack-digest

That said, the pmc does realize that the slack funnel is very limiting and we have enabled **github discussions** This seems to be a better forum for technical discussions as it happens closer to the code.

Our discussion area is live in the same repo at https://github.com/apache/cordova/discussions


## Membership Data:
- There are currently 99 committers and 96 PMC members in this project.
- The Committer-to-PMC ratio is roughly 1:1.
- We had 3 inactive PMC member resignations this quarter.

### Community changes, past quarter:

- No new PMC members. Last addition was Pieter Van Poyer on 2021-04-05
- No new committers. Last addition was Pieter Van Poyer on 2021-04-05
- 3 PMC member resignations this quarter. 
  - Dmitry Blotsky on 2022-12-04
  - Raymond Camden on 2022-12-04
  - Murat Sutunc on 2022-12-04
   
## Releases: 

- cordova-fetch@3.1.0 was released on 2022-12-13.
- cordova-common@4.1.0 was released on 2022-11-15.
- cordova-plugin-media@6.1.0 was released on 2022-09-09.

## Dev mailing list:

- _mailing list stats seem to be inaccurate, but traffic was still low this quarter_
- 41 emails by 11 authors, divided into 16 topics.
 
## Github activity: 

- _mailing list stats seem to be inaccurate, but traffic was lower this quarter_
- 1266 emails

Issue close rate of 92%
- 105 issues opened on GitHub, past quarter (-1% change)
- 97 issues closed on GitHub, past quarter (-8% change)

PR close rate of 80%
- 120 PRs opened on GitHub, past quarter (-39% change)
- 96 PRs closed on GitHub, past quarter (-47% change)

Commits
- 116 commits in the past quarter (-38% change)
- 17 code contributors in the past quarter (30% increase)






