## Status report for the Apache Cordova project - December 2021

## Description: 
 - A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
 
## Activity
Current work has been around keeping up with recent changes to iOS and Android, our most used platforms, and updating plugins. We continue to work towards reducing technical debt, and 'running the business'
We have archived translations of our documentation which was very out of date. Similarily we will be archiving outdated documentation for releases more than 3 years old.
Several committers have received test devices purchased with donated funds, the remainder should be done shortly.

## Issues: 
  - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.
   
## Health report: 

Our status dashboard at http://status.cordova.io remain mostly all green - failures are usually due to external service issues that do device testing. Our nightly builds have been extremely stable.

ASF Project Statistics gives the project a Community Health Score (Chi): 6.3 ( Healthy )

We continue to see contributions from a small group of dedicated individuals. That said, things remain stable and the project continues to see good traffic.

The cordova-cli, the base tool used for creating/building/running gets 125k downloads a week on npm, and has been consistent for the last year.  Various core plugins see usage in the 50-80k/wk range.

Our primary channel for helping, and hearing from users is via our #slack community, which has ~4k users and continues to be fairly active. 

## Membership Data:
There are currently 103 committers and 100 PMC members in this project.
The Committer-to-PMC ratio is roughly 1:1.

### Community changes, past quarter:

- No new PMC members. Last addition was Pieter Van Poyer on 2021-04-05
- No new committers. Last addition was Pieter Van Poyer on 2021-04-05
   
## Releases: 

- cordova-create@4.0.0 was released on 2021-12-07.
- cordova-plugin-statusbar@6.0.0 was released on 2021-12-01.
- cordova-app-hello-world@6.0.0 was released on 2021-10-31.
- cordova-eslint@4.0.0 was released on 2021-10-31.
- cordova-lib@10.1.0 was released on 2021-10-08.
- cordova-android@10.1.1 was released on 2021-09-15.

## Dev mailing list:

dev@cordova.apache.org had a 17% decrease in traffic in the past quarter (60 emails compared to 72):
 
## Github activity: 

issues@cordova.apache.org had a 20% increase in traffic in the past quarter (2400 emails compared to 1985):

Issue close rate of 83%
- 132 issues opened on GitHub, past quarter (-15% change)
- 110 issues closed on GitHub, past quarter (-14% change)

PR close rate of 119%
- 227 PRs opened on GitHub, past quarter (33% increase)
- 271 PRs closed on GitHub, past quarter (60% increase)

Commits
- 255 commits in the past quarter (39% increase)
- 26 code contributors in the past quarter (30% increase)


