

## Status report for the Apache Cordova project - June 2021

## Description: 
 - A platform for building native mobile applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
 
## Activity
Current work has been around keeping up with recent changes to iOS and Android, our most used platforms, and updating plugins. We continue to work towards reducing technical debt, and 'running the business'

## Issues: 
  - There are no issues requiring board attention at this time.
   
## Health report: 

Our status dashboard at http://status.cordova.io remain mostly all green - failures are usually due to external service issues that do device testing. Our nightly builds have been extremely stable.

ASF Project Statistics gives the project a Community Health Score (Chi): 10.00 (Super Healthy)
2 of the releases in the quarter were lead by our newest committer Pieter

We continue to see contributions from a small group of dedicated individuals.  I believe the global pandemic has had an effect also as without any large corporate sponsored development it can be hard to find personal time.  That said, things remain stable and the project continues to see good traffic.

The cordova-cli, the base tool used for creating/building/running gets 125k downloads a week on npm, and has been consistent for the last year.  Various core plugins see usage in the 50-80k/wk range.

Our primary channel for helping, and hearing from users is via our #slack community, which has ~4k users and continues to be fairly active. We will be seeking to enable github discussions in one or more repos to see if this is a better way to engage with the community. I am hopeful that we can resume our video hangouts soon.

## Membership Data:
There are currently 103 committers and 100 PMC members in this project.
The Committer-to-PMC ratio is roughly 1:1.

### Community changes, past quarter:

- Pieter Van Poyer was added to the PMC on 2021-04-05
- Pieter Van Poyer was added as committer on 2021-04-05
   
## Releases: 

- cordova-plugin-network-information@3.0.0 was released on 2021-06-06.
- cordova-plugin-camera@5.0.2 was released on 2021-05-14.
- cordova-android@9.1.0 was released on 2021-04-13.
 
## Dev mailing list:

dev@cordova.apache.org had a 32% decrease in traffic in the past quarter (51 emails compared to 74):
 
## Github activity: 

issues@cordova.apache.org had a 12% decrease in traffic in the past quarter (1767 emails compared to 1999):

Issue close rate of 74%
- 143 issues opened on GitHub, past quarter (18% decrease)
- 106 issues closed on GitHub, past quarter (26% decrease)

PR close rate of 89%
- 98 PRs opened on GitHub, past quarter (24% increase)
- 87 PRs closed on GitHub, past quarter (17% increase)

Commits
- 86 commits in the past quarter (13% increase)
- 25 code contributors in the past quarter (56% increase)

